I noticed that it's become fashionable
in terms of public science education for
doctors to rely on argument by analogy
what I mean is this
I noticed that increasingly doctors will
say with a very flippant and relaxed
attitude that xanax is a lot like
alcohol all your nerves relax all the
signals between nerves calm down your
body feels calm your muscles relaxed
does that sound familiar
yeah it's the exact same mechanism that
alcohol hits so yeah xanax is basically
alcohol in a tablet I know that they're
doing this because they're trying to
make something completely unknown seem
comprehensible to people in the audience
by comparing it to something they're
familiar with the problem is many people
are very likely to respond to this line
of argumentation I think oh well alcohol
is no problem at all i'm familiar with
alcohol I'm not afraid of lapsing into
alcoholism myself oh yeah okay fine it's
like oh it's like alcohol then it's no
big deal then it's safe then it's normal
then it's fine
they're not thinking in terms of an
allegory about the effects on the
nervous system they're not thinking that
from maybe from this doctors perspective
alcohol is the drug with the highest
body count in states of america alcohol
kills more people that heroin and most
most Western countries have please you
know they may not be thinking that from
the doctors perspective alcohol might be
one of the most addictive habit forming
drugs or they may be thinking that like
alcohol when you go through withdrawal
after you've developed tolerance or
addiction you have delirium tremens you
have go into physiological shock you're
actually a danger of dying from what the
doctor means but the comparison of
alcohol may be something very troubling
and very boring indeed but people in the
audience are really gonna find this kind
of reassuring to have this drug brought
down to this easy to relate to familiar
level and of course this is done with
allegories too marijuana
even more with people presuming that
marijuana represents something safe or
at least that it's a drug where all of
the negative consequences are are easily
manageable now I rely on allegories of
this kind in politics in history all the
time if I'm talking to someone who
really knows nothing about Buddhism I
can start to discuss and describe
Buddhism in terms of its similarities to
Catholicism but pretty soon in that
conversation once I've explained a
little bit about what Buddhism as a
religion is like and what it's about and
so on at some point we have to move past
the allegory we have to discard it
entirely and say you know what before I
told you that Buddhism historically as
similar to Catholicism and this isn't
this way you know the truth is something
profoundly alien profoundly new very
difficult for you to understand or
relate to no offense
um really it's something you shouldn't
feel familiar with or that you should
regard that's safe this is something you
should actually you're actually quite
right to feel apprehensive about and and
alienated from because you you really
don't know the first thing about
Buddhism then we can take the next step
in the conversation I can I can maybe
tell you the first and the second thing
also there is a sense both in terms of
the objective chemical science and in
terms of the subjective experience of
what these drugs are like there is a
sense in which you would really be well
advised to forget any comparison any
allegory comparing xanax to alcohol and
you should regard it with great
trepidation as something quite
terrifying exotic and strange now I
emphasize here there's both an objective
and a subjective side to the story I've
heard many youtubers say that they find
the effects of cocaine and the commonly
prescribed methamphetamine adderall to
be identical now on we can get into the
chemistry of what what objectively are
the
differences between adderall and cocaine
but then it might also be worth
explaining why it is for them
subjectively it seemed identical the
high produced by cocaine seemed to them
exactly the same as that produced by a
dural I have heard people say here on
YouTube that they found prescription
adderall to have exactly the same
feeling exactly the same effect as
buying methamphetamine on the street as
an illegal party drug again interesting
subjectively and I think we could find
some people who were experienced drug
users who would say no no no for them
subjectively these were two very
different things that these were three
or four very different things or
experienced them in terms of how it felt
in terms of how it affected them maybe
also even specific things like how it
disrupted their sleep how it disrupted
their work like how it disrupted their
sex life so with all these cabinets
haven't been stated I'd like to
challenge you in the audience to ask
yourselves why is it that marijuana is
not referred to as a sedative why is it
that we think of this drug as something
profoundly different from an addiction
to sleeping pills why is it that we
think of marijuana as something
profoundly different from an addiction
to painkillers now the allegory is
always going to be incomplete it's
always going to be in part instructive
and in part misleading but
scientifically speaking objectively part
of the effect of marijuana on your brain
is sedative abstract cannabis or
marijuana became legal for recreational
use in Colorado in 2012 and this
legislation has created both challenges
and opportunities in medicine more
patients are using cannabis and more
patients are now willing to admit
cannabis use than in the past so this
increases the likelihood that they will
be forthcoming about drug use during
medical questioning cannabis use may
have implications during medical care
including procedural sedation some of
you might know if you have built up a
tolerance to pain killers before you go
in to have surgery you could have the
[ __ ]
flying experience of going through
surgery without sedation without relief
from pain because your body was already
accustomed to such a high dose of that
type of drug on a daily basis so it's
important to be honest with your
stalkers and the doctors may not know
how to sedate you or how to provide you
with anesthesia if that is the case so
the inquiry that this Medical Journal
article is pursuing is the question of
whether or not marijuana use produces a
similar tolerance to sedatives to
sedation can you guess can you guess
what the answer is medical records from
250 patients were reviewed and
researchers found that compared with
people who did not regularly use
cannabis people who regularly use
cannabis required an amount of sedation
for endoscopic procedures that was
significantly higher it's very difficult
to challenge the glamorization of drug
use in our culture and in our times I
know better than anyone I know just as
well as you that by presenting drugs as
something dangerous and exciting and
edgy you could end up glamorizing them
all the more even when you're really
trying to warn people this can ruin your
life marijuana is in some ways the most
storied drug in our culture right now
and if you doubt that
keep in mind Bob Marley was one of the
most influential musicians of the 20th
century
I think Snoop Dogg not far behind how
many songs were on the radio even when
the drug was illegal you know during my
youth constantly reiterating catch
phrase smoked weed every day constantly
glamourizing this as something
rebellious as something liberating and
in many many cases drug is believed even
have kind of profound philosophical
significance in people's lives I've
recently criticized my other leaders of
black lives matter for taking that
position
wouldn't it be in some ways useful if we
could bring marijuana
to Earth by classifying it as and
insisting on it being not recreational
not even a hallucinogen because for most
people it isn't not psychedelic now
there's a storied word what if we could
start to educate the public about
marijuana addiction as something that
really is analogous to getting hooked on
sedatives getting hooked on sleeping
pills getting hooked on painkillers and
as with all of these other forms of
addiction the tell-tale sign is that you
build up tolerance you need more and
more of a dose in order to even get the
same response the second biggest problem
with weed for me was motivation I
struggled with mental illness I don't
know we talked about it in this video
and if you're new but those of you who
know me
yeah you know that I struggle with
mental illness and depression and
motivation is like a huge thing for me
overall I really want to live I don't
really want to do things I still have
motivation but the only motivation I had
was just to get high like I wouldn't
even mind if I get the munchies and like
I was starving and I didn't eat for two
days now I can't be [ __ ]
I just want to sit here on my hammock
which is not mine even sit on the
hammock in the Sun and get more high a
lot of man in moderation only the best I
can live on experience every moment of
dumb drugs man I used to sell drugs I
know what's all about it's [ __ ] it's
fake it's not real this shit's [ __ ]
real man health is real it's never
enough it was never ever ever ever
enough like I never reached
balance I was never happy enough with
how I felt I always wanted more and it's
just [ __ ] ruin me and a lot of people
say we is not a gateway drug and I can't
say for everyone how it is but I know
that for me whenever I feel like it's
not enough I always think about going
back to value those of you who have not
been following me since like Thailand
wouldn't necessarily know but I've had
quite a serious addiction to volume a
lot of people go straight drugs and then
go to [ __ ] prescription label drugs I
don't know I think it's better because
you're still a [ __ ] drug user you
still an addict you're not sober you and
I'm not gonna lie i hoard I still part
pills and I have quite a stash of valium
get addicted to drugs and I laugh
because it's such an easy thing to get
out of just stop me just stop because
the more drugs you do the more there
comes a habit and I have different a
habit an addiction a habit is you know
it's bad for you and you can stop an
addiction is you know it's bad you just
can't stop you're just like a roller
coaster out of control so how I got off
[ __ ] speed meth marijuana LSD saw the
recreational street drugs even
prescription drugs like you know some of
the prescription painkillers and stims
like ritalin I'm such a metal pen today
these things I appeal are as detrimental
to your health to your sanity as the
street drugs even more so because
they're legal and I don't want to make
this video about my valium addictions
it's not about that I just wanted to
mention that I nearly lost my life to my
addiction and every time that I smoked
weed
and I get this tolerance then I I think
what else can I do how can I mix this
with other things how can I maximize
this healing how can I you know get the
next taste gets the next trip get the
next I don't know
and like even then it's not enough it's
never enough
[ __ ] drugs man like I've done ominous
often speak from experience and they
[ __ ] up people's lives they [ __ ] up
Hitman's mood coffees a drug that's as
bad as space as bad as meth knowing I'm
sin as bad as man because it's legal and
we give it to kids and it keeps people
up and okay people that break into homes
for coffee I get that but it's it's
[ __ ] as bad as men so if you do use
any stimulants
coffee tea whatever using rally
sparingly not every week either
I dunno even maybe month and just learn
how to be you get [ __ ] done naturally
uh-huh learn how to do it naturally and
that's how you get off drugs men's used
to decide man he is [ __ ] decide he
change your identity you identify
yourself as someone who's clean lean
with clean Bloods shop minds [ __ ] the
haters [ __ ] the deal as [ __ ] Assad who
says to have this had that you're
Coleman's your body one shot drug-free
for life I have quit as I've said many
times and I always came back to it
because like the yucky black hole in my
soul is like never satisfied
it's a journey I guess this has been
such a huge part of my life and I guess
it still isn't a way I do want to
clarify though that I'm not against
weeds and honestly I'm not even
necessarily against like harder drugs
it's just that I feel like everyone
should have the ability to choose what
they want to do with their lives be it
like doing drugs or even killing
ourselves like I think I do support that
I don't really want to live like doing
drugs we've been killing ourselves like
I think I do support that however I do
show you guys that other possibilities
do exist I mean killing yourself he's
not doing the auction I'm negative and
I'm dark and I want to do bad stuff I
want my I want to hang out my this
neighborhood alone that's dangerous hang
on this neighborhood alone I hear right
it wants to kill everything's to kill me
too I hate myself I'm trying to kill
myself I take myself alive I've been on
I haven't drink up took drugs and six
days and for me that's a miracle I've
been lying to everybody else I think I
was sober but I'm not this is my sixth
day I'm never going to use again
[Applause]